{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f11\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}MS Sans Serif;}
{\f27\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604030504040204}Tahoma;}{\f57\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f58\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f60\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f61\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f62\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f63\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f64\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f273\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Tahoma CE;}{\f274\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Tahoma Cyr;}{\f276\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Tahoma Greek;}{\f277\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Tahoma Tur;}{\f278\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Tahoma (Hebrew);}
{\f279\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Tahoma (Arabic);}{\f280\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Tahoma Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 endnote text;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 footnote text;}{\*\cs17 \additive \super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}{\*\cs18 \additive \super \sbasedon10 endnote reference;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1638928658
\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01*;}{\levelnumbers;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 }{\listname ;}\listid-2}}{\*\listoverridetable
{\listoverride\listid-2\listoverridecount1{\lfolevel\listoverrideformat{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelold\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\'b7;}{\levelnumbers;}\f27\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 
\chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 }}\ls1}}{\info{\author Tuan}{\operator Slash}{\creatim\yr2003\mo12\dy31\hr12\min11}{\revtim\yr2004\mo1\dy20\hr15\min59}{\version6}{\edmins3}{\nofpages13}{\nofwords1784}{\nofchars10173}{\*\company Amith}{\nofcharsws0}
{\vern8247}}\widowctrl\endnotes\aendnotes\ftnnrlc\aftnnar\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale75\nolnhtadjtbl \fet1
\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super #{\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super T}{\f11\fs20 opic1}}$
{\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super T}{\f11\fs20 opic1}}K{\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super T}{\f11\fs20 opic1}}}{\f11\fs20 \{bmc title.bmp \}
\par }{\b\f27\fs16 Version 3.5}{\f11\fs20 
\par 
\par }{\f27\fs20\uldb What's New}{\v\f27\fs20 Topic10}{\f11\fs20 
\par }{\f11\fs20\uldb Interface Guide}{\v\f11\fs20 Topic9}{\f11\fs20 
\par }{\f11\fs20\uldb Disclaimer & Readme}{\v\f11\fs20 Topic2}{\f11\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f11\fs20 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f11\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f11\fs20 \page }{\cs18\super #{\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super T}{\f11\fs20 opic2}}$
{\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super T}{\f11\fs20 opic2}}K{\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super T}{\f11\fs20 opic2}}}{\b\f27\fs20 Some notes}{\f27\fs20 :
\par 
\par Please do look over the help file on proper use of the software
\par 
\par Character Builder does not allow for multiple elite professions
\par 
\par The Weaponmaster and Explorer class is not fully supported in the upgrade part so if possible refer to the Players Guide for reference.
\par 
\par I did take the liberty of using this format for Armed & Unarmed Combat, Armed Combat(Daggers) +5 instead of the proper Daggers +5. This format is used also for Armed and Unarmed Combat but it should have no bearing on the final result.
\par 
\par Some prequistes are not enforced such as certain edges that have prequisties or packages that have requirements. I did my best to enforce most of it but not all. Again refer to your references.
\par 
\par Department Head option allows you to add a new speciality to a professional skill instead of a new speciality of an exisiting skill. Department Head option is an option so you may forgoe it and edit the data manual through the advancement editor.
\par 
\par Pick method is not supported but you can manually enter numbers into the input boxes
\par 
\par If you are going to install program again remember uninstall. The setup program comes with an unistall option.
\par 
\par Requirements: Windows XP/2000/Me/98 (unsure of '95) and Internet Explorer (or any other browser that supports the character sheet)
\par 
\par Developed with Delphi and VC++
\par 
\par }{\b\f27\fs20 Grant of Licence}{\f27\fs20 
\par 
\par I, Licencer, grants you the Licencee, a licence to use this software in accordance to terms contained with this licence.
\par 
\par 
\par Restrictions.  You may not: (i) charge others or ask any donations; (ii) modify or translate th
e software; (iii) reverse engineer, decompile, or disassemble the software, except to the extent this restriction is expressly prohibited by applicable law; (iv) create derivative works based on the software; (v) merge the software with another product; (
vi) copy the software; or (vii) remove or obscure any proprietary rights notices or labels on the software.
\par 
\par }{\b\f27\fs20 Disclaimiers}{\f27\fs20 
\par 
\par This software and the accompanying files are supplied "As is", without any warranty of any kind, either expressed or implied. In no ev
ent shall the author be liable for any damages whatsoever including direct, indirect,incidental, consequential, loss of business profits or special damages from the use of this software. 
\par 
\par I am not affiliated with Decipher, Inc. or Paramount Pictures. For more information on Star Trek, go to www.startrek.com or for more information on Decipher,Inc. products and games, go to www.decipher.com.
\par 
\par Star Trek and related are owned by Paramount Pictures. All rights reserved. This is intended for promotion of the Star Trek RPG line by Decipher, Inc. No infringement is intended.
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f11\fs20 
\par \page }{\cs18\super #{\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super T}{\f11\fs20 opic3}}${\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super T}{\f11\fs20 opic3}}K{\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super T}{\f11\fs20 opic3}}}{\b\f27\fs18 Introduction
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f27\fs28 
\par }{\f27\fs18 This guide will help to familiarize yourself with the different features available in this program. It is important to have your sourcebooks and/or rules guide available for reference and such.
\par 
\par One of the first things you'll come across upon start up is the toolbar.
\par }{\f27\fs28 \{bmc toolbar.bmp \}
\par 
\par }{\f27\fs18 Each button denoting a phase in character generation. }{\i\f27\fs18 Conception}{\f27\fs18  is where the basic data for your character is inputed as well as dice rolls are made. }{\i\f27\fs18 Species Details}{\f27\fs18 
 is where your character's speices' skills are selected as well as favorite attributes and reactions are selected. }{\i\f27\fs18 Personal Details}{\f27\fs18  represents the backgro
und and skill selection of your character, and you may also select your character's edges and flaws.  }{\i\f27\fs18 Professional Details}{\f27\fs18 
 represents the selection of your character's professional package and skills with it. Again, you can also select your edges and flaws. }{\i\f27\fs18 Finalization}{\f27\fs18 
 is the stage where you may view your completed character or add further changes to upgrade or advance your character's skills or abilities through an editor.
\par 
\par Some other features to note are dialog boxes that you may encounter asking you select a skill from a specific group or specify a skill.
\par }{\f27\fs28 
\par \{bmc dialog.bmp \}
\par }{\f27\fs18 One liberty that I have taken is that I use the format Armed Combat(Daggers) +6 instead of Daggers +6 as its commonly used in the Coda system. This format is also used for  Unarmed Co
mbat and it does impede the process of making a character. The offical use should be Daggers + 6 for example but in my personal opinion it should not make a difference. 
\par 
\par And finally, each page on the program has an apply button to make changes and such. The program enforces a linear process from Conception to Finalization. So if you do go back and make changes on any page click "Apply".}{\f27\fs28 
\par 
\par \{bmc apply.bmp \}
\par }{\f11\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f11\fs20 
\par \page }{\cs18\super #{\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super T}{\f11\fs20 opic4}}${\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super T}{\f11\fs20 opic4}}K{\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super T}{\f11\fs20 opic4}}}{\b\f27\fs20 Conception}{\f11\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f27\fs20 One of the first thing you should is enter the personal data of
 your character (name, gender, etc.). One of the things you will notice is the the rank and age combo boxes.  The edge, Promotion, is used to symbolize a general rank position (refer to your Player's Guide for more info). Age effects also play a part in t
he process adjusting any scores at the end of creation.
\par }{\f11\fs20 
\par \{bmc personal.bmp \}
\par 
\par }{\f27\fs20 Another feature here is the species box. You may have the option to select a second species by clicking "Bi-Racial". The second selection box is your secondary race while the top one is your dominant one.
\par }{\f11\fs20 
\par \{bmc species.bmp \}
\par 
\par }{\f27\fs20 Another important feature is the profession selection. Select your character's profession and then his or her's Tier 1  professional ability.}{\f11\fs20   
\par 
\par \{bmc profession.bmp \}
\par 
\par }{\f27\fs20 If you like, you may include an elite profession by checking "Elite?" and the Elite box will appear where you select your elite profession and Tier1 ability.
\par }{\f11\fs20 
\par \{bmc elite.bmp \}
\par 
\par }{\f27\fs20 If you have selected "Bi-Racial" you will find two identical boxes where the you can simulate the dice rolling part of your character. Basically, you click "Roll" and drag and rop the values to the
 empty boxes. You can start over if you have made a mistake by clicking "Redo". As of the current edition, you may enter your own values into the text spaces instead of the random numbers.}{\f11\fs20 
\par 
\par \{bmc roll1.bmp \}
\par 
\par }{\f27\fs20 If you have a bi-racial character you'll see a group of checkboxes where you select your dominant attributes. Then, if you have bi-racial character, roll for your secondary attributes.
\par 
\par }{\f11\fs20 \{bmc roll2.bmp \}
\par 
\par }{\f27\fs20 Click "Apply" when your finished}{\f11\fs20 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f11\fs20 
\par \page }{\cs18\super #{\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super T}{\f11\fs20 opic5}}${\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super T}{\f11\fs20 opic5}}K{\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super T}{\f11\fs20 opic5}}}{\b\f27\fs20 Species Details}{\f27\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f27\fs20 On Species Details, you will see the basic species skills for your character. You allocate points by clicking the spin button and then type in your perferred speciality for your character.

\par 
\par \{bmc speciesalloc.bmp \}
\par 
\par Afterwards, check on your favorite attributes and reactions.
\par 
\par \{bmc favorites.bmp \}
\par 
\par Click "Apply" to complete
\par }{\f11\fs20 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f11\fs20 
\par \page }{\cs18\super #{\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super T}{\f11\fs20 opic6}}${\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super T}{\f11\fs20 opic6}}K{\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super T}{\f11\fs20 opic6}}}{\b\f27\fs20 Personal Details
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f27\fs20 On Personal Details, you'll see a personal package selection option. Select your personal package and then select a skill below.
\par 
\par \{bmc packageselect.bmp \}
\par 
\par After selecting a skill, you will see a list of other possible skills to choose. Selet three by clicking your selection and then clicking the add button. Likewise, you can do the same if you want to remove a skill.
\par 
\par \{bmc skillbuckets.bmp \}
\par 
\par You may also want to select an edge and possiblly another edge with an addtional flaw. Click "Choose Edge" and then select an edge from the combo box. If you want to select another, click "Extra Edge" and select your flaw and edge.
\par 
\par \{bmc edges & flaws.bmp \}
\par 
\par Click "Apply" when you are finished. }{\f11\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f11\fs20 
\par \page }{\cs18\super #{\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super T}{\f11\fs20 opic7}}${\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super T}{\f11\fs20 opic7}}K{\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super T}{\f11\fs20 opic7}}}{\b\f27\fs20 Professional Details}{\f27\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f27\fs20 
To keep track of your current skills, there is a "View" button. Click on it to view your updated skills. This is basically designed to help you make proper choices and to notify you which skills you have and have not.
\par 
\par \{bmc view.bmp \}
\par 
\par \{bmc skillview.bmp \}
\par 
\par Select a professional package from the combo box underneath "Professional Packages". If it is blank it means you have not selected a profession otherwise, it should be filled with choices based on the profession you have chosen under Conception. After se
lecting a package, you may be asked to specify or select certain skills from skill groups. Then select additional skills under "Select Skill" and click the spinbutton beside it to allocate points. Then click the "Add" button when finished.
\par 
\par \{bmc profselect.bmp \}
\par 
\par When you add your skill, you will have you choices listed in a grid. You have the option of adding a speciality to an existing skill at the cost of one skill point by double clicking the entry or clicking "add". You also have the option to delete a
 selection.
\par 
\par \{bmc skillsalloc.bmp \}
\par 
\par You may also want to select an edge and possiblly another edge with an addtional flaw. Click "Choose Edge" and then select an edge from the combo box. If you want to select another, click "Extra Edge" and select your flaw and edge.
\par 
\par \{bmc edges & flaws.bmp \}
\par 
\par Click "Apply" when you are finished. }{\f11\fs20 
\par }{\f27\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f11\fs20 
\par \page }{\cs18\super #{\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super T}{\f11\fs20 opic8}}${\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super T}{\f11\fs20 opic8}}K{\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super T}{\f11\fs20 opic8}}}{\b\f27\fs20 Finalization
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f27\fs20 
\par Here in finalization, you can print out your character by clicking "Print/Save".
\par 
\par \{bmc export.bmp \}
\par 
\par If you want to make any customizations you may do one of the following before printing. You may want to do use the "Optional" frame to ugrade you
r character to the mininium requirements for an eltie or starship officer profession, or you may want to use the editor to add additonal skill points, increase attributes and reactions or add new edges or professional abilities.
\par 
\par First click view to display your data
\par 
\par \{bmc view.bmp \}
\par 
\par Then you may make adjustments to your data as you see fit following the advancement guidelines in the Player's Guide or follow your own.
\par 
\par \{bmc add1.bmp \}
\par \{bmc others.bmp \}
\par 
\par If you are a st
ickler for being regulated. You may want to use the "Advancement Manager" to tally the amount of advancements you are making. The "Advancement Manager" acts like a watchdog making sure you have enough advancement points to make necessary adjustments. To u
s
e, click the spin button to let the program know how many advancements your character has taken. Then click the arrow key,">>",to start the advancement manager. You may during the process of editing want to turn off the manager so that you wont be pentali
zed for any changes. Click "On" to remove the checkbox and then click "On" again to resume the manager.
\par 
\par \{bmc manager.bmp \}
\par 
\par Click "Print/Save" to complete your character.}{\f11\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f11\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f11\fs20 \page }{\cs18\super #{\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super T}{\f11\fs20 opic9}}$
{\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super T}{\f11\fs20 opic9}}K{\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super T}{\f11\fs20 opic9}}}{\b\f11\fs20 Contents}{\f11\fs20 
\par 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f27\fs20 \loch\af27\dbch\af0\hich\f27 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li360\ri0\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnf27 {\pntxtb \'b7}}\faauto\ls1\rin0\lin360\itap0 {\f11\fs20\uldb Introduction}{\v\f11\fs20 Topic3}{\f11\fs20 

\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f27\fs20 \loch\af27\dbch\af0\hich\f27 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li360\ri0\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnf27 {\pntxtb \'b7}}\faauto\ls1\rin0\lin360\itap0 {\f11\fs20\uldb Conception}{\v\f11\fs20 Topic4}{\f11\fs20 

\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f27\fs20 \loch\af27\dbch\af0\hich\f27 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li360\ri0\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnf27 {\pntxtb \'b7}}\faauto\ls1\rin0\lin360\itap0 {\f11\fs20\uldb Species Details}{\v\f11\fs20 Topic5}{
\f11\fs20 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f27\fs20 \loch\af27\dbch\af0\hich\f27 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li360\ri0\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnf27 {\pntxtb \'b7}}\faauto\ls1\rin0\lin360\itap0 {\f11\fs20\uldb Personal Details}{\v\f11\fs20 Topic6}{
\f11\fs20 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f27\fs20 \loch\af27\dbch\af0\hich\f27 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li360\ri0\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnf27 {\pntxtb \'b7}}\faauto\ls1\rin0\lin360\itap0 {\f11\fs20\uldb Professional Details}{\v\f11\fs20 Topic7}{
\f11\fs20 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f27\fs20 \loch\af27\dbch\af0\hich\f27 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li360\ri0\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnf27 {\pntxtb \'b7}}\faauto\ls1\rin0\lin360\itap0 {\f11\fs20\uldb Finalization}{\v\f11\fs20 Topic8}{\f11\fs20 

\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f27\fs20 \loch\af27\dbch\af0\hich\f27 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li360\ri0\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnf27 {\pntxtb \'b7}}\faauto\ls1\rin0\lin360\itap0 {\f11\fs20\uldb Custom Data}{\v\f11\fs20 Topic11}{\f11\fs20 

\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f11\fs20 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f11\fs20 
\par \page }{\cs18\super #{\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super T}{\f11\fs20 opic10}}${\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super T}{\f11\fs20 opic10}}K{\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super T}{\f11\fs20 opic10}}}{\b\f27\fs20 What's new
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f27\fs20 
\par Users can now add new species and professional packages to the program
\par 
\par "[custom]" has been added to the choices for personal packages. This option allows the user to select any skill and edges available
\par 
\par data editor accompanies the character generator to support the custom features
\par 
\par minor bugs fixed
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f11\fs20 \page }{\cs18\super #{\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super T}{\f11\fs20 opic11}}
${\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super T}{\f11\fs20 opic11}}K{\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs18\super T}{\f11\fs20 opic11}}}{\b\f27\fs20 Adding Custom Data}{\f27\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f27\fs20 This edition includes a feature where users can add a new species or professional package into their program. The Character Builder uses
 two text files, "aliens.txt" and "professions.txt". In each file, when you add a new data, each entry is encased within "<" and ">". This lets the program differentiate between different data in the files. Ex.
\par 
\par <
\par PACKAGE: Cannon Fodder
\par PROFESSION: Soldier
\par SKILL: Armed Combat (choose) +1
\par SKILL: Craft:Carpentery +1
\par SKILL: Demolitions +1
\par SKILL: Vehicle Operation +2
\par SKILL: Tactics +4
\par EDGE: Defensive Attack
\par EDGE: Famous Event
\par EDGE: Rapid Healing
\par >
\par 
\par As shown above each skill, edge, flaw, name, etc.  is "tagged" with their prospective identification in caps followed by a colon. This lets the program know what kind of data that is being entered into the program. Also, for new data to be included, the d
ata must be available before the program begins. 
\par 
\par To create new data, start the data editor (For this example we will create a professional package, the same steps can be applied to species. Also note that you have to refer to page 98 in the Player's Guide
 for guidelines on building a professional package).
\par 
\par \{bmc editor.bmp \} 
\par 
\par 1. Type in the name of this package. (Ex. Red Shirt)
\par 2. Select the profession for which this package belongs (Ex. Starship Security)
\par 3. Add some skills to the package and assign a level. You may also assign a speciality or have the user denote their own speciality.   (Ex. Armed Combat, Computer Use (Programming), etc)
\par 4. Add edges (of flaws if creating a species) (Ex. Commendation, Fame)
\par 
\par }{\i\f27\fs20 N.B. In steps 3 and 4 you have the option to type in a new skill, flaw or edge in the combo box. }{\f27\fs20 
\par }{\f11\fs20 
\par To delete any data, open the text file with your favorite text editor and highlight and delete (including the "<" and ">").
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f11\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f11\fs20 \page }{
\par }}